---
layout: post
title:  "Findings of Public Consultations on Marriage and Parenthood"
date:   2008-07-15
permalink: "/media-centre/press-releases/media-interview-with-dpm-wong-kan-seng-on-population-challenge-for-singapore"
---

The National Population Secretariat (NPS) in the Prime Minister’s Office worked with the Ministry of Community Development, Youth and Sports (MCYS), the Ministry of Manpower (MOM), REACH and the National Family Council (NFC) to facilitate a series of public consultation sessions involving more than 300 participants from April to July 2008, to seek feedback on the marriage and parenthood (M&P) situation in Singapore.

The purpose of the consultation exercise was to enable the Government to better understand the impact of the last Marriage and Parenthood review in 2004, which introduced a package of measures to try and encourage more marriages and births in Singapore.

The 2004 package seems to have arrested the decline in the total fertility rate (TFR) since 2004. After hitting a low of 35,135 in 2004, the number of resident births has increased slightly each year since 2005 and reached 37,074 in 2007. However, our TFR stands at 1.29, a long way below replacement level of 2.1 and one of the lowest in the world.

In MCYS’s survey which polled about 6,000 respondents to understand their perceptions and attitudes towards M&P, 85% of single respondents still desire to marry and almost 80% of married respondents would want two or three children. An encouraging 83% of respondents also felt that the 2004 M&P package had helped to create a more pro-family environment in Singapore.

At the consultation sessions, the public gave feedback on the barriers to translate Singaporeans’ desire for relationship, marriage and parenthood into reality. The key findings are as below:

Socialisation was viewed as the first step towards marriage and subsequent parenthood. While costs could delay marriages, the determining factor was more often than not the ability to meet a suitable partner. Key challenges in socialisation and marriage are as follows:

